stepping outward like my priority for
the next well for the next six months
especially but really the next year and
starting in January is to give more to
give a clearer stronger voice for people
who are using ipfs and the things
they're trying and giving that a voice
that is very like that the the people
working on the code of ipfs hear those
ideas and see it and hear about what
people are running into much more
prominently like have that be a very
prominent part of the community
discussion and dialogue and the way I'm
trying to approach that is to I'm
planning to try approaching that is to
try to build more communities of
practice so for example what would you
do you feel like you run into other
geneticists who are also interested in
doing this or are you trying to find
more geneticists who want to work on
this together and is there anything we
can do to help you start that dialogue
or facilitate that dialogue yeah I think
the struggle right now is that so the
version the latest version which is the
St you the standard is the standard for
trial use version 3 of our drafts back
it's very much a political hot potato
right now and so the we had a huge
pressure from the White House and from
the the medical societies actually to
have this spec done before the fall for
obvious political reasons for enabling a
precision medicine initiative from Obama
and so unfortunately we pushed out
aspect too soon and so you really
haven't really just fleshed out a lot of
the details so I think the so I the the
challenge is that we the geneticists or
the other people who are on the clinical
genomics working group it's sort of not
in the radar and we're trying just did
agree that what we should name the
attribute for a reference genome so very
much that's where we're at right now and
arguing should it be a zero-based or a
one based index so you know I
click typical computer science zero
being the first in an array but other
people will say oh no we've been doing
it
what like starting at the number one for
you know four years and so and so we've
been arguing about just issues like that
not necessarily implementing some of the
Hey
you want to say hi to and the doggy I
know but I think it's the I think the so
we've been arguing a lot about that but
I think what I want to do is actually
have this more fleshed out and present
it as a proposal of like actually have
it mostly solved and get buy-in yeah
because actually I've done a lot of work
to did actually to solve it I think I
think that probably be a better solution
is actually just just build it just test
it out and and then show them hey this
is this solve so many different problems
and here's actually how to do that so
would it be helpful or encouraging for
you to be it I mean it sounds like
you're already in contact with lots of
other geneticists I'm sure I'm wondering
if it would be helpful for me to be
putting to be trying to encourage those
people who are like you who are
interested in applying within your field
applying these technologies encourage
like get providing some sort of venue
for you to be talking to each other and
trying things out together in order to
craft those proposed those proposals or
those samples of like like proofs of
concept would that be helpful or is it
is it easier to just sort of work on it
and put it out there well I think you
guys are busy enough actually working on
the spec and I think probably I think I
certainly I can handle and and just just
basically do it and so my genetic
testing lab is actually is like you know
we we somewhat conform to the spec but
actually here's a and the ideal in hl7
and fire there's actually this idea of
profile so actually I can create my own
model and that post it and it ends right
now probably link it to the HTTP gateway
of peers there it is on as a way to
resolve where am i Jason model lives and
it's using a gateway approach and then
it's and then to find my own model and
actually just solve it and this is the
actually technically is actually valid
use of this of the spec so I think but I
think the mostly probably is actually
being part of these conversations to
handle one of scenarios of actually how
for instance attributes or
eld i think that's something that still
as I'm sort of at them but I can to
understand and I figure out how to we're
actually going to you solve those but I
need to go cuz I promised my kids to go
to bring them to the movie theater today
and looks like everyone's ready and
waiting for me which movie are you going
to sing
alright the original plan was my parents
we're gonna take the kids to sing and my
wife and I were gonna go see passengers
but it sounds like we're stuck all going
to see sing so which is alright well I
hope it's good
alright I'm happy to follow up and
actually just be around and they're
probably good because you guys are sort
of on a tight schedule with the holidays
so actually just sort of bring up these
ideas and so but oh I'm in meantime I'm
actually just I'm building us out and
using idea--this and the pipeline
more and more and I think but certainly
I well do is actually I'll be happy to
present at one of your apps on ipfs
calls sort of actually should show
here's here's an example of what we what
we built and actually and I'd love to
get some feedback awesome
it sounds great alright meanwhile I
gotta go enjoy the movie holidays see ya
hey come of it you want to you have
anything you want to talk about
children's I don't know we can hear you
morning so this week this that would
this week's call is like totally
informal we're just sort of bouncing can
sit chat about whatever you wanted to
chat about essentially have sticky buns
lip and cooling this was even 45 minutes
ago but there was no good time so I'm
gonna go eat them now okay
oh yeah so I guess I don't have anything
specific I'm sort of rounding off the
first version of etherium on IPL d which
has been really neat it's it's kind of a
zoo working with all the dependencies
and and like all the sorts of the
dependencies are the branches of the
dependencies that have like that have
moved over from - Sid from multi hashes
you kind of have to like assemble the
dependency graph tray manually is this
similar to are you basically doing what
Jeremy did was he cash um but you're
doing it with etherium but my guess is
yes the main thing that he did I mean
well obviously the Z cash low octane is
a lot smaller than the ethereum
blockchain at this point but he's wrote
the entire blockchain on to ipfs as
you'll be using a building and you can
use IPL d resolvers you know individual
transactions and even navigate between
transactions on the blockchain yeah
precisely that except that the because
the theorems like a general state
machine being able to look at all all
that state is has made it a bit more
complex mmm but and also I'm learning
the VIP FS deck for the first time so
yeah that's also I think this is a great
than as a test of the person who
implemented most of those dependencies
and is like currently pushing them
forward okay he was able to use them all
together very efficiently and like build
this proof of concept and to see someone
who is not one of those maintainer x'
try to do effectively the same thing
using those same libraries it's I think
it'll be very to see
where are the things that maybe to
Jeremy it's obvious like oh you need
this version of this thing because we
changed it last week where that hasn't
like because things are moving so fast
it's probably downright impossible for
you to know a lot of that stuff I took
run into it yeah yeah yeah exactly but
it's you know I've been I started
maybe over a month ago just sort of like
starting to look through IP FS and see
how it's actually built and so I've been
stumbling through it for a while and now
I have an idea of how it all shoots
together
- networking stack I don't know anything
about that yet I think they would be
great if you if you wanted to give any
form of a report or rundown of like here
are the things I ran into you're the
things that where the documentation was
great and easy and I didn't have to
scratch my head much and you're the
things where I got computers in stock
and it kind of should have been easier
yeah it's pretty useful for us mm-hmm
even if I mean if you don't have time to
write it up even if we did a quick call
at some point mm-hm
like late January should just let you
yeah I need to start documenting like my
stumbling blocks or I'm gonna forget
them please write them down as you run
into them like even if you can hand off
a even if it's just a scratch pad of
like a text file that's just like ran
into this ran into that um that would be
useful even that to tease apart and be
like how could we make it easier that
would be super super useful yeah also
thinking because we're on the on the
etherion side we're looking at rewriting
some of the implementations of the
etherium objects and I'm thinking about
like how can we do it in a way that is
more friendly to ipfs and things like
this so like one example is our our
state tree and that's a big old markable
tree and it's meant to stop meant to
like recurse one note at a time which is
more appropriate to what you need to do
instead of a resolver and
and we make a lot of assumptions like
you have all the data locally on energy
and rocks and things like this yeah yeah
okay yeah I'd be happy to to report my
experience yeah one of the hard parts is
just getting I don't people near awake
at the same time yes that is that is
certainly a challenger in Seattle right
yeah
so you do roughly yeah but I'm mostly
because I'm working with the JavaScript
implementations I'm mostly like trying
to talk to David yeah so you're dealing
yeah by the time you wake up them
they're at the end of their day we
should discuss Anna's
theory in Seattle in February cool I
think we already have a sponsor set up a
sponsor so I kind of it's kind of
becoming like a public event originally
it was just going to be like some Syrian
people and David yes and whoever wants
to come hang out that likes a theorem
and EFS
and then told some other people about it
and they got excited about it and it's
turning into more of a public vision
thing as we look Korean so let's see
there is a ticket for it in at the fest
community yes
yeah I've been I've been seeing the
comments sort of evolving on that as you
figuring out venue and stuff yeah cool
yeah so I've never done never really or
a hackathon before I've certainly helped
you know like one-on-one peering at them
but can you um
can you maybe see like mention Richard
again in there and specifically asked
him are you would you want advice on how
to structure the hackathons abroad you
were able to do it informally and now
it's growing into this thing that my
name's Richard has planned hackathons
before so he might be a really good one
to ask for advice on how to structure
that and yeah if you just mentioned him
on the issue he he'll probably respond
he's out actually he's well you saw he's
dialed into this but he what went away
did eat baked goods I've actually got to
go answer a door right now so I have to
just fine off
but it's good talking yeah a little note
on there and explain the context that
this was originally just like a hangout
for existing developers it's becoming a
bigger thing yeah I think the biggest
thing is also since that's how it
evolved sort of no way to do it wrong
yeah Chris gathering like that and that
you have the problem of too many people
being too enthusiastic yeah just letting
people get together and talk about
whatever they talk about um maybe
emphasize more I have at least sometime
delineating set aside for people who are
more knowledgeable to just talk to just
get everyone else up to speed right I
think is like that's a valuable
important thing and then because and do
that earlier because and the people if
someone showed up mainly because they
were curious so they have less
information or they're curious and
excited to give them some like solid
piece of information of like a personal
account of the technologies and how they
work that might be there their main
takeaway from the whole thing it's like
I got one talk about what it's like to
use this stuff
and then if the conversations dive into
something that's sort of out of reach
for a newbie that's okay because then
they're like getting to be a fly on the
wall and if they get bored they can go
home I so you don't necessarily need to
slow everything down to accommodate
people yeah especially if you at the
very beginning sort of provide some
information so that you sort of
acknowledge the curious people and give
them something that you want it's my
main I mean angle on it that is good
advice do you is there someone I can
contact that uses you know like we were
just hearing from who uses IP FS as part
of their work and it's not like ipfs for
IP MSS sake that would be really cool to
hear from them um can you can you
mention that I have to go answer the
door mention that in the end they github
issue maybe at flying's and well also
and I will follow up on that we can try
to find it all right thanks thank you
take it alright I don't even know how I
you